docs/packaging.md, before:

# Packaging (Docker + Helm)

This project can be packaged as a single install (similar to Airflow’s chart): UI + API deployed together, with path-based routing.

## Target routing

- `https://example.com/` → UI
- `https://example.com/api/*` → API

## Docker images

Build locally:

```bash
docker build -t config-manager-api:dev ./backend
docker build -t config-manager-ui:dev ./ui
```

## Helm chart

Chart source: `charts/config-manager/`

## Install from the public Helm repo (GitHub Pages)

Once published, the chart can be installed via `helm repo add`:

```bash
helm repo add config-manager https://<org>.github.io/<repo>
helm repo update

helm install config-manager config-manager/config-manager --version 0.1.0 \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.host=example.com
```

Install with an external Postgres `DATABASE_URL` secret (simplest):

```bash
kubectl create secret generic config-manager-db \
  --from-literal=DATABASE_URL='postgres://USER:PASS@HOST:5432/DB?sslmode=require'

helm install config-manager ./charts/config-manager \
  --set database.existingSecretName=config-manager-db \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.host=example.com
```

Or, if you use External Secrets Operator (ESO) + Vault, have it extract **all** key/value pairs from a Vault path and expose them to the API pod (via `envFrom`) (recommended when you want password-only secrets and room to add more env vars later).

This is ideal when you want to keep adding keys at the same Vault path over time and have them available as environment variables (keys must be valid env var names).

```bash
helm install config-manager ./charts/config-manager \
  --set api.externalSecret.enabled=true \
  --set api.externalSecret.clusterSecretStore.name='cluster_secret_store_name' \
  --set api.externalSecret.vaultPath='path/to/secret' \
  --set database.parts.host='YOUR_DB_HOST' \
  --set database.parts.name='YOUR_DB_NAME' \
  --set database.parts.user='YOUR_DB_USER' \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.host=example.com
```

In this mode, store the Postgres password in Vault as `DB_PASSWORD` (so it becomes an env var), and the API will assemble the connection string from `DB_HOST/DB_PORT/DB_NAME/DB_USER/DB_PASSWORD` (optionally `DB_SSLMODE`).

## Publishing the public Helm repo (GitHub Pages)

This repo includes a GitHub Actions workflow that publishes the Helm repo to a `gh-pages` branch on tags (for example `v0.1.0`). After enabling GitHub Pages to serve the `gh-pages` branch, the Helm repo becomes available at:

- `https://<org>.github.io/<repo>/index.yaml`

## Publishing to GCP Artifact Registry (GAR)

### 1) Create a GAR repo (one-time)

```bash
gcloud artifacts repositories create REPO \
  --repository-format=docker \
  --location=LOCATION
```

### 2) Configure Docker auth

```bash
gcloud auth configure-docker LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev
```

### 3) Push images

```bash
export LOCATION=LOCATION
export PROJECT=PROJECT
export REPO=REPO

docker tag config-manager-api:dev "$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/config-manager-api:dev"
docker tag config-manager-ui:dev "$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/config-manager-ui:dev"

docker push "$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/config-manager-api:dev"
docker push "$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/config-manager-ui:dev"
```

### 4) Push the Helm chart as OCI

Helm 3 supports pushing charts to OCI registries:

```bash
export CHART_VERSION=0.1.0

helm package ./charts/config-manager --version "$CHART_VERSION"
helm push "config-manager-$CHART_VERSION.tgz" "oci://$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/charts"
```

Install from OCI:

```bash
helm install config-manager "oci://$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/charts/config-manager" \
  --version "$CHART_VERSION" \
  --set database.existingSecretName=config-manager-db \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.host=example.com
```

Commit message:

Added a gitlab action step to publish public images

docs/packaging.md, after:

# Packaging (Docker + Helm)

This project can be packaged as a single install (similar to Airflow’s chart): UI + API deployed together, with path-based routing.

## Target routing

- `https://example.com/` → UI
- `https://example.com/api/*` → API

## Docker images

**Official public images** (published on release tags to GitHub Container Registry): `ghcr.io/<org>/config-manager-api`, `ghcr.io/<org>/config-manager-ui`. Tags match release versions (e.g. `0.1.0` for tag `v0.1.0`); `latest` points to the latest release.

Build locally:

```bash
docker build -t config-manager-api:dev ./backend
docker build -t config-manager-ui:dev ./ui
```

## Helm chart

Chart source: `charts/config-manager/`

## Install from the public Helm repo (GitHub Pages)

Once published, the chart can be installed via `helm repo add`:

```bash
helm repo add config-manager https://<org>.github.io/<repo>
helm repo update

helm install config-manager config-manager/config-manager --version 0.1.0 \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.host=example.com
```

Install with an external Postgres `DATABASE_URL` secret (simplest):

```bash
kubectl create secret generic config-manager-db \
  --from-literal=DATABASE_URL='postgres://USER:PASS@HOST:5432/DB?sslmode=require'

helm install config-manager ./charts/config-manager \
  --set database.existingSecretName=config-manager-db \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.host=example.com
```

Or, if you use External Secrets Operator (ESO) + Vault, have it extract **all** key/value pairs from a Vault path and expose them to the API pod (via `envFrom`) (recommended when you want password-only secrets and room to add more env vars later).

This is ideal when you want to keep adding keys at the same Vault path over time and have them available as environment variables (keys must be valid env var names).

```bash
helm install config-manager ./charts/config-manager \
  --set api.externalSecret.enabled=true \
  --set api.externalSecret.clusterSecretStore.name='cluster_secret_store_name' \
  --set api.externalSecret.vaultPath='path/to/secret' \
  --set database.parts.host='YOUR_DB_HOST' \
  --set database.parts.name='YOUR_DB_NAME' \
  --set database.parts.user='YOUR_DB_USER' \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.host=example.com
```

In this mode, store the Postgres password in Vault as `DB_PASSWORD` (so it becomes an env var), and the API will assemble the connection string from `DB_HOST/DB_PORT/DB_NAME/DB_USER/DB_PASSWORD` (optionally `DB_SSLMODE`).

## Publishing (release tag)

On push of a tag `v*` (e.g. `v0.1.0`), GitHub Actions:

1. **Helm chart**: Publishes the chart to the `gh-pages` branch (Helm repo at `https://<org>.github.io/<repo>/index.yaml`).
2. **Docker images**: Builds and pushes API and UI images to GHCR (`ghcr.io/<org>/config-manager-api`, `ghcr.io/<org>/config-manager-ui`) with the same version tag (e.g. `0.1.0`) and `latest`.

## Publishing to GCP Artifact Registry (GAR)

### 1) Create a GAR repo (one-time)

```bash
gcloud artifacts repositories create REPO \
  --repository-format=docker \
  --location=LOCATION
```

### 2) Configure Docker auth

```bash
gcloud auth configure-docker LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev
```

### 3) Push images

```bash
export LOCATION=LOCATION
export PROJECT=PROJECT
export REPO=REPO

docker tag config-manager-api:dev "$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/config-manager-api:dev"
docker tag config-manager-ui:dev "$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/config-manager-ui:dev"

docker push "$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/config-manager-api:dev"
docker push "$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/config-manager-ui:dev"
```

### 4) Push the Helm chart as OCI

Helm 3 supports pushing charts to OCI registries:

```bash
export CHART_VERSION=0.1.0

helm package ./charts/config-manager --version "$CHART_VERSION"
helm push "config-manager-$CHART_VERSION.tgz" "oci://$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/charts"
```

Install from OCI:

```bash
helm install config-manager "oci://$LOCATION-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT/$REPO/charts/config-manager" \
  --version "$CHART_VERSION" \
  --set database.existingSecretName=config-manager-db \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.host=example.com
```
